draft-001-dbs (#1083)
spectrocloud/librarium: content/docs/04.5-devx/05-app-profile/15-db-services/4-connectivity.md

---
title: "Database Connectivity"
metaTitle: "Palette Dev Engine Database Connectivity"
metaDescription: "Palette Dev Engine Database Connectivity"
hideToC: false
fullWidth: false
---

import Tabs from 'shared/components/ui/Tabs';
import WarningBox from 'shared/components/WarningBox';
import InfoBox from 'shared/components/InfoBox';

# Service Connectivity

> Connectivity is the process of establishing communication between the database service and the app services. Connectivity is required to send commands and receive answers as result sets from the database. Palette database services establish the connectivity by distributing underlying driver or provider with connection strings, defined as output variables corresponding to individual database services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connectivity is the process of establishing communication between the database service and clients. Connectivity is required to send SQL queries from clients to the database. Palette database services expose output variables that contain the required connectivity information such as the hostname, database user, user password, and database port. You can use these output variables to connect your application to the database. 
```

The primary considerations in this regard are:

> * Each database service comes with service-specific output variables. These output variables in the form of macros are passed to lower-layer app services to establish connectivity.

Reviewer: We can remove this, as we covered above.

> * While adding services to the app profile, consider upward compatibility, where the DB service needs to be at the bottom-most layer (the first layer to be added to the app profile). This is because the variables used in services follow a usage hierarchy where variable values from the first services you add, which become the first layer in the App Profile stack, can pass to services you add next, which appear higher in the stack. However, variable values cannot pass from the top service layers downwards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When adding services to the app profile, consider the order of service layers. Services must be added after the database service layer for other services that require connectivity with the database. In other words, the database service should be at the app profile's bottom-most layer. 

The order of the service layers is important because the output variables used in services follow a usage hierarchy. The output variables for a service are only available if the service comes after the service that exposes the output variable. Output Variables from the first services you add, which become the first layer in the app profile stack, can be consumed by other services after it. However, output variables cannot be passed downwards from the top service layers.
```
I took a stab at simplifying the information. This is a concept we want to make sure everyone understands.

> * Pass the output variables to the different service layers as YAML values. The value can be passed on as arguments, secrets, as part of the manifest, or any YAML parameter per the user's requirement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can pass the output variables to the different service layers as YAML values. The value can be passed on as arguments, secrets, as part of the manifest, or any YAML parameter per the user's requirement. You can also consume the output variables as environment variables in container services.
```

**Example:**

```
env:
   - name: USER_NAME
     value: "{{.spectro.app.$appDeploymentName.mongodb-1.USERNAME}}"
   - name: PASSWORD
     value: "{{.spectro.app.$appDeploymentName.mongodb-1.PASSWORD}}"
   - name: MONGO_URI
     value: "{{.spectro.app.$appDeploymentName.mongodb-1.MONGO_URI}}"
   - name: MONGO_URI_SRV
     value: "{{.spectro.app.$appDeploymentName.mongodb-1.MONGO_URI_SRV}}"
```

<br />

> ## Postgres Connectivity

Reviewer: We can remove this as we added it to the Palette Postgres Requirments section.

* For [Postgres](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/libpq-ssl.html) if you want to establish connectivity, set `sslMode` to `require`. 

* To get the Postgres database user secret use the following kubectl command:

> 

Reviewer: Let's keep this section generic and show people how to retrieve the secret. 
Or use tabs to show each database service and its example.

---

> title: "Database Connectivity"

Reviewer 2: Heading also change to Service connectivity?

metaTitle: "Palette Dev Engine Database Connectivity"
metaDescription: "Palette Dev Engine Database Connectivity"
hideToC: false
fullWidth: false
---

import Tabs from 'shared/components/ui/Tabs';
import WarningBox from 'shared/components/WarningBox';
import InfoBox from 'shared/components/InfoBox';

# Service Connectivity

> Connectivity is the process of establishing communication between the database service and clients. Connectivity is required to send SQL queries from clients to the database. Palette database services expose output variables that contain the required connectivity information such as the hostname, database user, user password, and database port. You can use these output variables to connect your application to the database.

Reviewer 2: @resmaa - this has still evidences of database keyword into this page. Additionally, I have some thoughts on organizing this doc. Lets meet for few minutes and discuss on the ordering.
